# Crystallized Entity
47.7: Can you define what you mean by a “crystallized entity?”

**Ra:** I am Ra. We have used this particular term because it has a fairly precise meaning in your language. When a crystalline structure is formed of your physical material the elements present in each molecule are bonded in a regularized fashion with the elements in each other molecule. Thus the structure is regular and, when fully and perfectly crystallized, has certain properties. It will not splinter or break; it is very strong without effort; and it is radiant, traducing light into a beautiful refraction giving pleasure of the eye to many.

52.11: Well, is there then, from the point of view of an individual who wishes to follow the service-to-others path from our present position in third density, is there anything of importance other than disciplines of personality, knowledge of self, and strengthening of will?

**Ra:** I am Ra. This is technique. This is not the heart. Let us examine the heart of evolution.  
  
Let us remember that we are all one. This is the great learning/teaching. In this unity lies love. This is a great learn/teaching. In this unity lies light. This is the fundamental teaching of all planes of existence in materialization. Unity, love, light, and joy; this is the heart of evolution of the spirit.  
  
The second-ranking lessons are learn/taught in meditation and in service. At some point the mind/body/spirit complex is so smoothly activated and balanced by these central thoughts or distortions that the techniques you have mentioned become quite significant. However, the universe, its mystery unbroken, is one. Always begin and end in the Creator, not in technique.

57.33: Could you please expand on the concept of space/time and time/space and how to get past this, the concept of these things, and at what density level do these concepts no longer affect the individual?

**Ra:** I am Ra. This will be the last full query of this working. This instrument has some vital energy left. However, we become concerned with the increasing distortions of the body complex towards pain.  
  
The space/time and time/space concepts are those concepts describing as mathematically as possible the relationships of your illusion, that which is seen to that which is unseen. These descriptive terms are clumsy. They, however, suffice for this work.  
  
In the experiences of the mystical search for unity, these need never be considered, for they are but part of an illusory system. The seeker seeks the One. This One is to be sought, as we have said, by the balanced and self-accepting self, aware both of its apparent distortions and its total perfection. Resting in this balanced awareness, the entity then opens the self to the universe which it is. The light energy of all things may then be attracted by this intense seeking, and wherever the inner seeking meets the attracted cosmic prana, realization of the One takes place.  
  
The purpose of clearing each energy center is to allow that meeting place to occur at the indigo-ray vibration, thus making contact with intelligent infinity and dissolving all illusions. Service-to-others is automatic at the released energy generated by this state of consciousness.  
  
The space/time and time/space distinctions, as you understand them, do not hold sway except in third density. However, fourth, fifth, and to some extent, sixth, work within some system of polarized space/time and time/space.  
  
The calculations necessary to move from one system to another through the dimensions are somewhat difficult. Therefore, we have the most difficulty sharing numerical concepts with you and take this opportunity to repeat our request that you monitor our numbers and query any that seem questionable.

---
To achieve crystallization, one need to practice [[Discipline of Personality]]

---

I think one can also have a crystallized mind in such an understanding can be build. 

For example, a crystallized mind will think of the digits 0-9 as:
- 0 - The Infinite Creator; GOD
- 1 - The Law of One; Oneness
- 2 - Duality; Yin and Yang
- 3 - Trinity; God, Son, and Holy Spirit
- 4 - 四 in Chinese and sounds like 死 (Death); an incarnation
- 5 - 五 in Chinese and sounds like 我 (I; me); an identity we take on in an incarnation
- 6 - The 6 senses we have to experience the manifested world
- 7 - The 7 colors of the rainbow; we saw the beauty and unity of the world
- 8 - Turned sideways is Infinity; from 7, we realized infinity and unity
- 9 - 3,6,9; that we seek to return into unity
- (1)0 - A cycle complete; the God grew with more knowledge, understanding, Love and Light of the Law of One

10 is a decade, and a cycle (10) of decades is a century, and a cycle of centuries is a millennium

In Buddhism view, the 1000 worlds (三千大千世界) where number 3 is used as a cycle, thus
- the decade is the small 1000-world (小千)
- the century is the median 1000-world (中千)
- the millennium is the big 1000-world (大千)

In Law of One's term, a cycle is 7 and the cycle can be sub into 7 sub levels and so on and on. Thus
- 7 is the small cycle
- 7x7=49 is the median cycle
- 49x7=343 is the big cycle

Like [[Tesla Nikola]] said, understand the relation between 3, 6, and 9 will reveal you the truth of this universe:
- 3 is the small cycle (3= 3^1 = 3)
- 6 is the median cycle (6 = 3^2 = 9)
- 9 is the big cycle (9 = 3^3 = 27)

Also check [[Emerald Tablets of Thoth the Atlantean|Emerald Tablets]] where Thoth mentions the meaning of numbers.


Possible crystallized body? : 舍利子