# Service to Other
Check [[STO-STS]]

The STO will need STS when the self is in danger as STS is best known for its ability to preserve the self.

7.15: However, service to others results in service to self, thus preserving and further harmonizing the distortions of those entities seeking intelligent infinity through these disciplines.

15.7: **The greatest service that our population on this planet(Earth) can perform individually** - There is but one service. The Law is One. The offering of self to Creator is the greatest service, the unity, the fountainhead. The entity who seeks the One Creator is with infinite intelligence. From this seeking, from this offering, a great multiplicity of opportunities will evolve depending upon the mind/body/spirit complexes’ distortions with regard to the various illusory aspects or energy centers of the various complexes of your illusion. Thus, some become healers, some workers, some teachers, and so forth.

17.30: are there best ways of being of service to others?
- The best way of service to others is the constant attempt to seek to share the love of the Creator as it is known to the inner self. This involves self knowledge and the ability to open the self to the other-self without hesitation. This involves, shall we say, radiating that which is the essence or the heart of the mind/body/spirit complex.  
- Speaking to the intention of your question, the best way for each seeker in third density to be of service to others is unique to that mind/body/spirit complex. This means that the mind/body/spirit complex must then seek within itself the intelligence of its own [[discernment]] as to the way it may best serve other-selves. This will be different for each. There is no best. There is no generalization. Nothing is known.

32.1: Thus we see protection being very simple. Give thanksgiving for each moment. See the self and the other-self as Creator. Open the heart. Always know the light and praise it. This is all the protection necessary.
- 33.2: Harmony, thanksgiving, and praise of opportunities and of the Creator: these are your protection.

52.3: I would ask this question in order to understand the mental disciplines and how they evolve. Do fourth-, fifth-, and sixth-density positive or service-to-others orientation social memory complexes use both the slingshot and the personality discipline type of effect for travel or do they use only one?

**Ra:** I am Ra. The positively oriented social memory complex will be attempting to learn the disciplines of mind, body, and spirit. However, there are some which, having the technology available to use intelligent energy forces to accomplish travel, do so while learning the more appropriate disciplines.

52.4: Then I am assuming in the positively oriented social memory complexes that a much higher percentage of them use the personality disciplines for this travel. Is this correct?

**Ra:** I am Ra. This is correct. As positive fifth density moves into sixth there are virtually no entities which any longer use outer technology for travel or communication.

54.21: A positively oriented entity may select a certain narrow path of thinking and activities during an incarnation and program conditions that would create physical pain if this path were not followed. Is this correct?

**Ra:** I am Ra. This is correct.
# How should STO treat STS
44.10: Can you suggest a method whereby we might, shall I say, nullify the effect of the influence that we don’t want from a negative source?

**Ra:** I am Ra. There are various methods. We shall offer the most available or simple. To share the difficult contact with the other-selves associated with this working and to meditate in love for these senders of images and light for self and other-selves is the most available means of nullifying the effects of such occurrences. To downgrade these experiences by the use of intellect or the disciplines of will is to invite the prolonging of the effects. Far better then to share in trust such experiences and join hearts and souls in love and light with compassion for the sender and armor for the self.

Like Ra said, with Love and Light.

*Thoughts:*

It is difficult to treat STSs with Love and Light as an initiate of STOs, but to understand and in knowing of that STS will eventually end in 6D and turn to 6D STO: for those (STSs) who use me to their own gain, I worry not. For I know the road they walk is one of dead ends, of death For I have travelled that path many times. So I help them and accelerate their journey that has an end. I shall help them to progress their journey and fast shall I accelerate their journey that within moments do they reach their destination. Oh how much do they celebrate at me surrendering at their power, but oh so foolishly do they believe that the road they walk is one to eternal life. I wait, wait till the day they reach their final destination. And it is called "final destination" for a reason, the "final" is the end of their road, of their life, of all their "achievements" they so dearly hold on to. It is nothing but an illusion, for they chose to walk the road of illusion and thus do they met the end of illusion - The Final, the Death, for Final Death is also an merely illusion that exists in the all wisdom and love of Infinity. And then do I see they turn and walk the path of truth, the one that I never left and neither did they. LOL #infinity #unity #foreverness
- To walk the the path of "falseness" and return to the path of Truth is the display of the power of infinity intelligence to create a plane of existence where the distortion of "falseness" exists and allow the beings to experience such "falseness" through the veil of forgetting of one self's perfection and walk the journey to return to source or to eternity.
	- In order words, this can be understood in Christian terms of "why did God create hell or evil?" For God is all powerful and all knowing, thus for a being born in heaven and to further understanding its own perfection within the universe, did God create "hell" or "imperfection" and through the Law of Free Will, the being chooses to put itself through the illusion/distortion of "hell", of "imperfection" to better understand the perfection or God. #Christianity
	- Because of the Law of Free Will and the Veil of Forgetfulness, one may get lost in the illusion and distortion and misses the time to return to heaven and gets trapped in the illusion of self or the self distortion. Thus further manifests and strengthens the illusion, thus the heavenly beings, or elders come into the illusion to "free" the "trapped" beings, thus causes the Messiah/savior Complex to the beings coming in due the veil of forgetfulness and gets caught up in the maelstrom of the karma of the trapped beings. 
	- The desire of beings to "save" the trapped ones within the illusion is also a display of the infinity intelligence to create a plane of existence where the distortion of "saving", "freeing", and/or "healing" other selves exists. Although All is One and One is All at all time and space, the desire to "save" or "healing" can be seen as an desire or experiment to accelerate the progression of beings from 1D to 7D. Or an desire to increase the frequency of vibration. A worldly example can be seen as the desire to turn up the volume to music to further experience the joy within the music, yet the volume has a upper limit to the one experiencing as too high of a volume can cause permanent damage to the ears of one. Thus the same can also be applied back to the desire/distortion of "healing/patient". #healing-patient A common saying of "experiment and play around (with the object) and push the boundaries and limits of the understanding of oneself."
	- The gap between the healing and patient creates the illusion of time and space. As one closes this gap or unites and balances the pain and joy within oneself, one will bring oneself out of the illusion of time and space (As Ra said that their polarity is united thus they are not of time and space). And as one gets to perfect unity of oneself, one will start to move out of the cycle of life and death (As Ra said the Law of One reaches for the Law of Foreverness; 6D to 7D).
	- The act of piercing the veil of forgetfulness is an act of one using its own conscious to reflect upon the past/future experiences and to connect them to create a full circle, like the symbol [[Ouroboros]]. Then as one continues to reflect upon its experiences and unite the pain and joy, the positive polarity with the negative polarity, one's consciousness will start to grow and eventually allows oneself to piercing the veil and remember the perfection within oneself. Like the symbol of the sun ☉. The dot can be seen as the first circle created or the birth of ouroboros, and as it grows, it will reach the outer circle, thus the full piercing of the veil.

---

A change in sound, like from calm to anger, can signal an attack by negative polarity.

62.1: Could you tell me what was wrong or what caused the necessity for the re-walking of the circle and the purpose of the expelling of breath?

**Ra:** I am Ra. This instrument was under specific psychic attack at the time of the beginning of the working. There was a slight irregularity in the words verbalized by your sound complex vibratory mechanisms in the protective walking of the circle. Into this opening came this entity and began to work upon the instrument now in trance state, as you would call it. This instrument was being quite adversely affected in physical complex distortions.

62.23: **:** Isn’t this unusual that a fifth-density then would bother to do this rather than sending a fourth-density servant, shall I say?

**Ra:** I am Ra. This is correct. Nearly all positive channels and groups may be lessened in their positivity or rendered quite useless by what we may call the temptations offered by the fourth-density negative thought-forms. They may suggest many distortions towards specific information, towards the aggrandizement of the self, towards the flowering of the organization in some political, social, or fiscal way.  
  
These distortions remove the focus from the One Infinite Source of love and light of which we are all messengers, humble and knowing that we, of ourselves, are but the tiniest portion of the Creator, a small part of a magnificent entirety of infinite intelligence.

67.3: I will ask if I am correct in this analysis. We would consider that the entity making this so-called attack is offering its service with respect to its distortion in our polarized condition now so that we may more fully appreciate its polarity, and we are appreciative and thank this entity for its attempt to serve our One Creator in bringing to us knowledge in, shall I say, a more complete sense. Is this correct?

**Ra:** I am Ra. There is no correctness or incorrectness to your statement. It is an expression of a positively polarized and balanced view of negatively polarized actions which has the effect of debilitating the strength of the negatively polarized actions.

67.4: We would welcome the services of the entity who uses, and I will use the misnomer, you might say, of attack, since I do not consider this an attack but an offering of service, and we welcome this offering of service, but we would be able, I believe, to make more full use of the service if it were not physically disabling the instrument in a minor way. For with a greater physical ability she would be able to more appreciate the service. We would greatly appreciate it if the service was carried on in some manner which we could welcome in even greater love than at present. This, I assume, would be some service that would not include the dizzying effect.  
  
I am trying to understand the mechanism of this service by the entity that seems to be constantly with us, and I am trying to understand the origin of this entity and the mechanism of greeting us. I will make a statement that is probably not only incorrect but is a function of my extreme limitation in understanding the other densities and how they work. I am guessing that this particular entity is a member of the Orion Confederation and is possibly, or possibly not, incarnate in a body of the appropriate density, which I assume is the fifth, and by mental discipline he has been able to project a portion if not all of his consciousness to our coordinates, you might say, here and it is possibly one of the seven bodies that make up his mind/body/spirit complex. Is any of this correct, and can you tell me what is correct or incorrect about that statement?

**Ra:** I am Ra. The statement is substantially correct.

67.6: Which body, with respect to the colors, does the entity use to travel to us?

**Ra:** I am Ra. This query is not particularly simple to answer due to the transdimensional nature, not only of space/time to time/space, but from density to density. The time/space light or fifth-density body is used while the space/time fifth-density body remains in fifth density. The assumption that the consciousness is projected thereby is correct. The assumption that this conscious vehicle attached to the space/time fifth-density physical complex is that vehicle which works in this particular service is correct.

67.7: I undoubtedly will ask several very uninformed and poor questions. However, I was trying to understand certain concepts having to do with the illusion, I shall say, of the polarization that seems to exist at certain density levels in the creation and how can the mechanism of interaction of consciousness— it is a very difficult subject for me and therefore I ask your forgiveness for my poor questions, but it seems to me that the fifth-density entity is attracted in some way to our group by [the] polarization of this group which acts somehow as a beacon to the entity. Am I correct?

**Ra:** I am Ra. This is, in substance, correct but the efforts of this entity are put forward only reluctantly. The usual attempts upon positively oriented entities or groups of entities are made, as we have said, by minions of the fifth-density Orion leaders; these are fourth-density. The normal gambit of such fourth-density attack is the tempting of the entity or group of entities away from total polarization towards service to others and toward the aggrandizement of self or of social organizations with which the self identifies. In the case of this particular group each was given a full range of temptations to cease being of service to each other and to the One Infinite Creator. Each entity declined these choices and instead continued with no significant deviations from the desire for a purely other-self service orientation. At this point one of the fifth-density entities over-seeing such detuning processes determined that it would be necessary to terminate the group by what you might call magical means, as you understand ritual magic. We have previously discussed the potential for the removal of one of this group by such attack and have noted that by far the most vulnerable is the instrument due to its pre-incarnative physical complex distortions.

67.8: In order for this group to be fully in service to the Creator, since we recognize this fifth-density entity as the Creator, we must also attempt to serve, in any way we can, this entity. Is it possible for you to communicate to us the desires of this entity if there are any in addition to simply ceasing the reception and dissemination of that which you provide for us?

**Ra:** I am Ra. This entity has two desires. The first and foremost is to, shall we say, misplace one or more of this group in a negative orientation so that it may choose to be of service along the path of service to self. The objective which must precede this is the termination of the physical complex viability of one of this group while the mind/body/spirit complex is within a controllable configuration. May we say that although we of Ra have limited understanding, it is our belief that sending this entity love and light, which each of the group is doing, is the most helpful catalyst which the group may offer to this entity.

67.9: We find a— I’m sorry, continue if you wish to continue with it.

**Ra:** I am Ra. We were about to note that this entity has been as neutralized as possible in our estimation by this love offering and thus its continued presence is perhaps the understandable limit for each polarity of the various views of service which each may render to the other.

67.10-11: We have a paradoxical situation in that in order to fully serve the Creator at this level in the polarized section, you might say, of the Creation, we have requests, from those whom we serve in this density, for Ra’s information. In fact, I just had one by telephone a short while ago. However, we have requests from, in this particular case, another density not to disseminate this information. We have the Creator, in fact, requesting two seemingly opposite activities of this group. It would be very helpful if we could reach a condition of full, total, complete service in such a way that we were by every thought and activity serving the Creator to the very best of our ability. Is it possible for you to solve, or possible for the fifth-density entity who offers its service to solve, the [[paradox]] that I have observed?

**Ra:** I am Ra. Consider, if you will, that you have no ability not to serve the Creator since all is the Creator. In your individual growth patterns appear the basic third-density choice. Further, there are overlaid memories of the positive polarizations of your home density. Thus your particular orientation is strongly polarized towards service to others and has attained wisdom as well as compassion.  
  
You do not have merely two opposite requests for service. You will find an infinite array of contradictory requests for information or lack of information from this source if you listen carefully to those whose voices you may hear. This is all one voice to which you resonate upon a certain frequency. This frequency determines your choice of service to the One Creator. As it happens this group’s vibratory patterns and those of Ra are compatible and enable us to speak through this instrument with your support. This is a function of free will.  
  
A portion, seemingly, of the Creator rejoices at your choice to question us regarding the evolution of spirit. A seemingly separate portion would wish for multitudinous answers to a great range of queries of a specific nature. Another seemingly separate group of your peoples would wish this correspondence through this instrument to cease, feeling it to be of a negative nature. Upon the many other planes of existence there are those whose every fiber rejoices at your service and those such as the entity of whom you have been speaking which wish only to terminate the life upon the third-density plane of this instrument. All are the Creator. There is one vast panoply of biases and distortions, colors and hues, in an unending pattern. In the case of those with whom you, as entities and as a group, are not in resonance, you wish them love, light, peace, joy, and bid them well. No more than this can you do for your portion of the Creator is as it is and your experience and offering of experience, to be valuable, needs be more and more a perfect representation of who you truly are. Could you, then, serve a negative entity by offering the instrument’s life? It is unlikely that you would find this a true service. Thus you may see in many cases the loving balance being achieved, the love being offered, light being sent, and the service of the service-to-self oriented entity gratefully acknowledged while being rejected as not being useful in your journey at this time. Thus you serve One Creator without paradox.

67.12: This particular entity is able to create, with its service, a dizzying effect on the instrument. Could you describe the mechanics of such a service?

**Ra:** I am Ra. This instrument, in the small times of its incarnation, had the distortion in the area of the otic complex of many infections which caused great difficulties at this small age, as you would call it. The scars of these distortions remain and indeed that which you call the sinus system remains distorted. Thus the entity works with these distortions to produce a loss of the balance and a slight lack of ability to use the optic apparatus.

67.13: **Questioner:** I was wondering about the magical, shall I say, principles behind the fifth-density entity giving this service and his ability to give it. Why is he able to utilize these particular physical distortions from a philosophical or magical point of view?

**Ra:** I am Ra. This entity is able to, shall we say, penetrate in time/space configuration the field of this particular entity. It has moved through the quarantine without any vehicle and thus has been more able to escape detection by the net of the Guardians.  
  
This is the great virtue of the magical working whereby consciousness is sent forth essentially without vehicle as light. The light would work instantly upon an untuned individual by suggestion, that is the stepping out in front of the traffic because the suggestion is that there is no traffic. This entity, as each in this group, is enough disciplined in the ways of love and light that it is not suggestible to any great extent. However, there is a predisposition of the physical complex which this entity is making maximal use of as regards the instrument, hoping for instance, by means of increasing dizziness, to cause the instrument to fall or to indeed walk in front of your traffic because of impaired vision.  
  
The magical principles, shall we say, may be loosely translated into your system of magic whereby symbols are used and traced and visualized in order to develop the power of the light.

