---
aliases:
  - STO
  - STS
---
# STO and STS
# Service to Others (STO)
The STO needs STS when the self is in danger as STS is best known for its ability to preserve the self.

**7.15**: However, service to others results in service to self, thus preserving and further harmonizing the distortions of those entities seeking intelligent infinity through these disciplines.
# Service to self (STS)
The STS needs STO when the providing source is in danger as STO is best known for its ability to preserve the outer source.

**7.14:** Consider, if you will, a simple example of intentions which are bad/good. This example is Adolf. This is your vibratory sound complex. The intention is to presumably unify by choosing the distortion complex called elite from a social memory complex and then enslaving, by various effects, those who are seen as the distortion of not-elite. There is then the concept of taking the social memory complex thus weeded and adding it to a distortion thought of by the so-called Orion group as an empire. The problem facing them is that they face a great deal of random energy released by the concept of separation. This causes them to be vulnerable as the distortions amongst their own members are not harmonized.

Check [[Orion]].

# How should STO treat STS
Like Ra said, with Love and Light.

It is difficult to treat STSs with Love and Light as an initiate of STOs, but to understand and in knowing of that STS will eventually end in 6D and turn to 6D STO: for those (STSs) who use me to their own gain, I worry not. For I know the road they walk is one of dead ends, of death For I have travelled that path many times. So I help them and accelerate their journey that has an end. I shall help them to progress their journey and fast shall I accelerate their journey that within moments do they reach their destination. Oh how much do they celebrate at me surrendering at their power, but oh so foolishly do they believe that the road they walk is one to eternal life. I wait, wait till the day they reach their final destination. And it is called "final destination" for a reason, the "final" is the end of their road, of their life, of all their "achievements" they so dearly hold on to. It is nothing but an illusion, for they chose to walk the road of illusion and thus do they met the end of illusion - The Final, the Death, for Final Death is also an merely illusion that exists in the all wisdom and love of Infinity. And then do I see they turn and walk the path of truth, the one that I never left and neither did they. LOL #infinity #unity #foreverness
- To walk the the path of "falseness" and return to the path of Truth is the display of the power of infinity intelligence to create a plane of existence where the distortion of "falseness" exists and allow the beings to experience such "falseness" through the veil of forgetting of one self's perfection and walk the journey to return to source or to eternity.
	- In order words, this can be understood in Christian terms of "why did God create hell or evil?" For God is all powerful and all knowing, thus for a being born in heaven and to further understanding its own perfection within the universe, did God create "hell" or "imperfection" and through the Law of Free Will, the being chooses to put itself through the illusion/distortion of "hell", of "imperfection" to better understand the perfection or God. #Christianity
	- Because of the Law of Free Will and the Veil of Forgetfulness, one may get lost in the illusion and distortion and misses the time to return to heaven and gets trapped in the illusion of self or the self distortion. Thus further manifests and strengthens the illusion, thus the heavenly beings, or elders come into the illusion to "free" the "trapped" beings, thus causes the Messiah/savior Complex to the beings coming in due the veil of forgetfulness and gets caught up in the maelstrom of the karma of the trapped beings. 
	- The desire of beings to "save" the trapped ones within the illusion is also a display of the infinity intelligence to create a plane of existence where the distortion of "saving", "freeing", and/or "healing" other selves exists. Although All is One and One is All at all time and space, the desire to "save" or "healing" can be seen as an desire or experiment to accelerate the progression of beings from 1D to 7D. Or an desire to increase the frequency of vibration. A worldly example can be seen as the desire to turn up the volume to music to further experience the joy within the music, yet the volume has a upper limit to the one experiencing as too high of a volume can cause permanent damage to the ears of one. Thus the same can also be applied back to the desire/distortion of "healing/patient". #healing-patient A common saying of "experiment and play around (with the object) and push the boundaries and limits of the understanding of oneself."
	- Please check [[LOO Healing]]
	- The gap between the healing and patient creates the illusion of time and space. As one closes this gap or unites and balances the pain and joy within oneself, one will bring oneself out of the illusion of time and space (As Ra said that their polarity is united thus they are not of time and space). And as one gets to perfect unity of oneself, one will start to move out of the cycle of life and death (As Ra said the Law of One reaches for the Law of Foreverness; 6D to 7D).
	- The act of piercing the veil of forgetfulness is an act of one using its own conscious to reflect upon the past/future experiences and to connect them to create a full circle, like the symbol [[Ouroboros]]. Then as one continues to reflect upon its experiences and unite the pain and joy, the positive polarity with the negative polarity, one's consciousness will start to grow and eventually allows oneself to piercing the veil and remember the perfection within oneself. Like the symbol of the sun ☉. The dot can be seen as the first circle created or the birth of ouroboros, and as it grows, it will reach the outer circle, thus the full piercing of the veil.