# Self-Consciousness
18.7: As an entity in this density grows from childhood, he becomes more aware of his responsibilities. Is there an age below which an entity is not responsible for his actions, or is he responsible from the time of birth?
- An entity incarnating upon the Earth plane becomes conscious of self at a varying point in its time/space progress through the continuum. This may have a median, shall we say, of approximately fifteen of your months. Some entities become conscious of self at a period closer to incarnation, some at a period farther from this event. In all cases responsibility then becomes retroactive from that point backwards in the continuum so that distortions are to be understood by the entity and dissolved as the entity learns.

From 18.7, I can understand that a child, in average, becomes self-conscious in 15 months. (Is this 15-month measured at the time of pregnancy or at the time of birth? I am not sure.  I will need to look at Ra's definition of incarnation #TODO) Then as the child grows up, it will have done many things, some things that brought joy and happiness, while other things pain and suffering. The child will not fully understand the joy and the pain as its consciousness is yet matured. Nonetheless, the responsibility for these actions will follow the child as its memories into its adulthood or the time of its consciousness matures. Then as the man/woman contemplates upon its past memories with a more conscious eye, it will realize the distortions and [[The Law of One#Infringement on Law of One|disharmony]] caused. Thus in attempting to resolve the distortions, it will first need to accept the responsibility or in other words, in accepting the past is past, what was done was done, and only to do better in the future.

18.8: Then an entity, say, four years old would be totally responsible for any actions that were against or inharmonious with the Law of One. Is this correct?
- I am Ra. This is correct. It may be noted that it has been arranged by your social complex structures that the newer entities to incarnation are to be provided with guides of a physical mind/body/spirit complex, thus being able to learn quickly what is consonant with the Law of One.
- 18.9: These guides are what you call parents, teachers, and friends.

28.7: Does a unit of consciousness, an individualized unit of consciousness, create, say, a unit of the creation? I will give an example. Would one individualized consciousness create one galaxy of stars, the type that has many millions of stars in it. Does this happen?
- **Ra:** I am Ra. This can happen. The possibilities are infinite. Thus a Logos may create what you call a star system or it may be the Logos creating billions of star systems. This is the cause of the confusion in the term galaxy, for there are many different Logos entities or creations and we would call each, using your sound vibration complexes, a galaxy.